.TH ASCII-XFR 1 "$Date: 2006-10-28 14:35:59 $" "" "Linux Users Manual"
.SH NAME
ascii\-xfr \- upload/download files using the ASCII protocol
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ascii\-xfr
.B \-s|\-r
.RB [ \-ednv ]
.RB [ \-l
.IR linedelay ]
.RB [ \-c
.IR characterdelay ]
.I filename
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Ascii-xfr
Transfers files in ASCII mode. This means no flow control, no
checksumming and no file-name negotiation. It should \fIonly\fP
be used if the remote system doesn't understand anything else.
.PP
The ASCII protocol transfers files line-by-line. The EOL
(End-Of-Line) character is transmitted as CRLF. When
receiving, the CR character is stripped from the incoming file.
The Control-Z (ASCII 26) character signals End-Of-File, if option \-e
is specified (unless you change it to Control-D (ASCII 4) with \-d).
.PP
\fBAscii-xfr\fP reads from \fIstdin\fP when receiving, and
sends data on \fIstdout\fP when sending. Some form of
input or output redirection to the modem device is
thus needed when downloading or uploading, respectively.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-s\fP
Send a file.
.IP \fB\-r\fP
Receive a file. One of \fB\-s\fP or \fB\-r\fP \fImust\fP
be present.
.IP \fB\-e\fP
Send the End-Of-File character (Control-Z, ASCII 26 by default) when
uploading has finished.
.IP \fB\-d\fP
Use the Control-D (ASCII 4) as End-Of-File character.
.IP \fB\-n\fP
Do not translate CR to CRLF and vice versa.
.IP \fB\-v\fP
Verbose: show transfer statistics on the stderr output.
.IP "\fB\-l\fP \fImilliseconds\fP"
When transmitting, pause for this delay after each line.
.IP "\fB\-c\fP \fImilliseconds\fP"
When transmitting, pause for this delay after each character.
.IP \fIfile\fP
Name of the file to send or receive. When receiving, any existing
file by this name will be truncated.
.SH USAGE WITH MINICOM
If you want to call this program from \fBminicom(1)\fP, start minicom
and go to the \fBO\fPptions menu. Select \fIFile transfer protocols\fP.
Add the following lines, for example as protocols \fBI\fP and \fBJ\fP.
.sp 1
.nf
I  Ascii    /usr/bin/ascii\-xfr \-sv   Y   U   N   Y
J  Ascii    /usr/bin/ascii\-xfr \-rv   Y   D   N   Y
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Miquel van Smoorenburg, miquels@cistron.nl
.br
Jukka Lahtinen, walker@netsonic.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
minicom(1)
